So every other day we hear the word – blockchain, blockchain, blockchain, blockchain, 
but what exactly is a blockchain? Well you can think of blockchains as a kind of shared database that differs from 
a regular database in the way that it actually stores the data or information.  So blockchains tend to store data in blocks, 
they are called blocks, and they are linked together through cryptography, which is where you get the word crypto from. Anyway, 
as the new data comes in, it is entered into a fresh block and once the block is filled with data, it is chained unto the previous block which makes the 
data chained together in chronological order, which is where the chain of blocks comes in. So, different kinds of information can be stored in the block 
chain but the most common use of a blockchain so far is definitely a ledger for transactions especially financial transactions. In the case of Bitcoin, 
a really popular case, blockchain is used in a decentralized way so that no single person or group has control, rather every single user collectively 
retains control. So, decentralized blockchain is basically immutable and that means that most data entered is basically irreversible and for 
the example of Bitcoin it means that transaction are basically permanently recorded and viewable to literally anyone around the world.
A very simple analogy to understand how blockchain actually works, is basically, think of Google docs, right, you can share a Google doc with somebody
without necessarily copying and pasting the same file elsewhere. You simply distribute it to other people, but when you distribute it, those other 
people are able to make real time changes and each person that has access to that Google doc can see all the changes being made. 
And you can collaboratively make changes on that very same document and you’re very aware of every change that is made to that document.
And it could be you and one person, it could be you and ten people simultaneously making changes to Google doc at the same time.  
And you can retain the same permissions. Each and every one of you on that document can retain all the same permissions and also make real time changes on
that very same document. And that’s just one of the little analogies you can use to understand blockchain. Of course, the blockchain is far more 
complicated than Google doc. Let me give another analog. So let’s say you have a file of transactions on your computer and let’s say some accountants 
have the very same file on their computer and all of you have access to that very same file and when you make a transaction, your computer sends an email 
to each of those accountants to inform them of this transaction. Now each accountant basically rushes to be the first to check whether you can actually 
afford to make this transaction and let’s just say, and be paid their salary and the first to check and validate this hits reply all button, which will 
validate their logic for basically verifying this transaction. And if the other accountant agrees everyone will update their file. 
And this concept is basically what is enabled by what we call blockchain technology. You will be the  node, your computer will be the ledger, 
the distributed ledger, which is the actual blockchain and the accountant will be the ones who are called minors and this form, 
where you and the accountants have access to this very same ledger is essentially what the blockchain facilitates. 
Just like in the case of a Google Doc in which you all have decentralized access to the very same document, this is a decentralized ledger and 
that is basically the way blockchain works.